[Music]
welcome to slash forward in this video
we're gonna do another why you're wrong
topic but not about fan theories and
this one we're gonna take a look at Rob
Zombie's soon to be trilogy of the
Firefly family which starts with House
of 1000 corpses then the Devil's Rejects
and will have its final installment on
September 16th with the theatrical
release of three from hell due to the
upcoming sequel there has been a lot of
discussion about the existing movies and
the repetition of a mantra that I've
been hearing for a long long time which
is that the Devil's Rejects is better
than house of 1000 corpses and is likely
one of the best and most fully formed
Rob Zombie movies
it's the Zambia STUV them all so to
speak just to clarify up front I do
enjoy both movies and appreciate mr.
zombies general aesthetic however I
don't think that the Devil's Rejects is
the better movie and it recently dawned
on me what about it failed to hit home
the start it should be pointed out that
these movies almost transcends direct
comparison if it were for an active
attempt to connect them via location
plot points and characters the
underlying themes and structure of each
movie is of an essentially different
type of horror sub-genre and to some
degree the Devil's Rejects if it hadn't
been made with the intent of being a
horror film might have justifiably been
classified as something else entirely
and I'm sure some would even argue that
it wasn't made with the intent of being
a horror movie but as a horror themed
exploitation mashup of some sort at any
rate I'm going to treat them both as
movies with a strong core or core and
explained my house when thousand corpses
stands out starting with a brief
description of both films House of a
thousand corpses is a more standard
horror format at movie it involves a
group of people who find themselves at a
classic backwoods hillbilly house for
the night the family has a different way
of doing things and the situation
quickly devolves in the ways one would
expect with the group being treated to
horrors of unimaginable significance and
some really cool visuals
I'm not intimately familiar with mr.
zombies entire catalog so I don't know
if his other movies which seemed to
divide critics
suffer from stylistic excesses like we
see in Halloween too but this is not the
case in corpses despite its flourishes
everything feels grounded gritty and
uniquely stylistic I wonder if zombie
excels in war standard formats with some
level of oversight or restriction and
this isn't intended as a slide against
him who or his directing skills horror
is an expanse of genre where basically
anything goes however it seems like
there's a general ambivalence about most
of his filmography and sometimes
directors do their best work when they
don't have access to resources and are
required to rely on their ingenuity as
large as one's vision and budget may be
there
still going to be restrictions on scope
and runtime which can work against you
in the long run this likely wouldn't
have worked against him in this movie
because you don't usually get the big
budgets and production freedom on your
first time out the point of this is to
say that a house of a thousand Corpses
was a well made
type movie in a standard theme and
sub-genre but with his special and
specific vision the set pieces he put
together were chilling into unsettling
the characters were mysterious and
unnerving
it also benefited overall from having a
limited geography allowing more control
over the atmosphere and adding an
element of claustrophobia which was
intensified by his camerawork all of
these elements come together in a slick
package and just work well we share in
the terror and uncertainty of the
characters and view the unpredictable
and horrific events from their vantage
point
in contrast and as I indicated earlier
the Devil's Rejects is a very different
type of movie it's driven by the
popularity of the core trio from the
first movie and so it shifts the point
of view to their perspective its scope
is also much more expansive it takes
place after the events of the original
and focuses on the police closing in on
the Firefly family we meet additional
family members and observe them
traversing a variety of new locations
and learn more about the history of the
area
apparently there's a tradition of rumors
about what the family had been up to and
who had been claimed as their victims
this includes relatives of local law
enforcement as a result when the police
finally decide to move in there's little
intention to actually arrest any of them
any confrontation could be viewed as an
intended slaughter so a majority of the
film deals with the family's experiences
while on the lam and the trouble and
difficulties they have along the way my
reference to the genre question before
lies in that there's a lot about this
movie that is similar to other non
horror films like Natural Born Killers
or basically any movie about Bonnie and
Clyde or Dillinger it also has strong
elements that tie it back to
exploitation films this doesn't work
against it it's just an observation that
demonstrates these significantly
contrasting styles and themes of the two
films The Devil's Rejects gets its
street cred from filling out and fully
forming the characters that were so
intriguing to us in the first film it
takes them out of their cozy Byzantine
living quarters and puts them in our
world as it turns out they're as bad as
they seemed it's a nasty and grimy piece
of filmmaking but in a good way I
watched The Devil's Rejects for the
first time when I was heavily in the
mood for something shocking
unfortunately and despite the strong
recommendations it didn't quite tickle
my grunge bone or whatever part of the
body would be the funny bone equivalent
of that and continues to remain somewhat
flat on repeated viewings it recently
dawned on me that the film doesn't quite
get where
want to go do the overall behavior of
the family if you spend time researching
true crime or serial killers you'll
likely recognize the trio's behavior
while fitting for the tone of the movie
feels a bit off and distracts from their
credibility they shout and carry on
laugh act assertively cuss and generally
do whatever they can to make people
uncomfortable in all situations this
intentional and overt subversion of
social norms is consistent with
antisocial behavior and may be seen as a
commentary on those norms by the
individuals engaging in this behavior or
in this case by the person writing the
story these elements have their place
but generally speaking true Psychopaths
to whatever degree they are aware of
their own abnormalities want to hide
their behavior as best they can they
don't do what they do to upset people
they do it because it's what comes
naturally to them further it becomes an
obsession that they need to fulfill
since they desire to have the continued
opportunity to do these things they
don't benefit by shouting it from the
rooftops overt expression of their true
feelings is a misstep because they lose
the benefits they've received from
hiding it the benefits of being able to
move through society unnoticed being
viewed as normal by others in the
context of what we deem appropriate and
generally being able to keep doing
what's normal to them the manic
expression of their internal desire is
existed to some degree in the first
movie however the expression comes
across as more natural and
understandable when exhibited in their
own private quarters and were presented
with some degree of restraint the
Devil's Rejects maintained as this
behavior but in a situation in which
discretion is actually more beneficial
than ever but the behaviors ramped up
off the charts which makes it feel like
its sole purpose is to create shocking
imagery in situations it could be argued
that I am pathologizing the characters
in the wrong way and that they fall
within a different psychological
category or that this isn't the point of
the movie and that may be correct but I
feel like it works against the film in
this case take Bill Mosley as an example
his character in house of a thousand
corpses was creepy and philosophical you
had no idea what he was capable of and
his imaginative powers were on full
display the characters had interacted
with him were similarly uncertain and
they were forced to wait to see what
would happen next this made it feel like
there were things going on in his mind
that had some sort of purpose but that
we couldn't fully understand since we're
not on the same wavelength in the
Devil's Rejects he comes across as crass
and reveals his motivations to be fairly
basic the story doesn't give much
opportunity for him to work at his
natural pace and many of his
interjections are flagrant like he's
trying to be hurt or make sure he's not
forgotten this can give the impression
of insecurity or uncertainty Mosley is
certainly capable of more than this as
an actor moving outside comparing Otis
to otis compare this
version of otis to chop top from Texas
Chainsaw Massacre to that movie was
partially comedic and his character was
still far more unsettling altum Utley
the constant attempts by all of them to
be as vile as possible seem put on like
normal folks attempting to be shocking
this isn't helped by the fact that in
the end they've almost fully developed
into ordinary people expressing sadness
to spare fear and so on this could be
viewed as character growth but I don't
think this was the necessary development
they held the audience's favor based on
what we saw in the original film and
it's okay and interesting to show how a
group of abnormal people would try to
think their way out of the type of
situations presented in The Devil's
Rejects it provides an opportunity to
create something truly unique and
different rather than following normal
tropes and expectations audiences don't
seem incapable of sympathizing with
despicable characters we root for an
antihero in a way similar to a hero
because when done right at the core of
the character is a little shimmering
nugget of truth it's a truth about us
or about something we recognize in human
nature and when that's missing the
characterization feels contrived or put
on which is what appears to be happening
here despite this I do have high hopes
for three from Hell hopefully this next
film benefiting from the backbone of
support provided by the previous movies
both strong in their own right will help
it be viewed on less divisive terms than
zombies last few films I'd love to hear
what you think in the comments below and
for you to become a part of the channel
by subscribing I hope you enjoy the
video and thanks for watching
[Music]